# Coursera: Data Science Specialization
### Getting and Cleaning Data  -  Course Project
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
##CODE BOOK


###Environment Variables & Meta Data
* dataDir - a character that contains the directory where data files reside in.
* activities - a factor that contains the activities performed when measures were taken.
* features - a factor that contains the measures taken. The underlying features.std and features.mean are logical variables used to extract measures from dataset.

###Functions, Variables & Datasets
1. getDataSet(set=character) - a function that reads and combine data from files generated by the accelerometer and gyroscope. It accepts a 'set' input to determine the type of data to read, and returns the combined data as its output.
<br>1.1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Variables 
<br>1.1.1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;featureFile - a character that contains the file name of the feature dataset.
<br>1.1.2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;activityFile - a character that contains the file name of the activity dataset.
<br>1.1.3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;subjectFile - a character that contains the file name of the subject dataset.
<br>1.2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Datasets
<br>1.2.1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;featureData - a factor that stores the feature dataset after they are read from file.
<br>1.2.2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;activityData - a factor that stores the activity dataset after they are read from file.
<br>1.2.3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;subjectData - a factor that stores the subject dataset after they are read from file.
2. runAnalysis() - a function that gets the 'train' and 'test' datasets using the getDataSet() function, merged and restructure the returned datasets, and applies average calculations before writting the tidied dataset to file. 
<br>2.1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Variables
<br>2.1.1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;rowID - a vector that stores the subject and activity label names.
<br>2.1.2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;colID - a vector that stores the feature label names.
<br>2.2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Datasets
<br>2.2.1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;trainData - a factor that stores the train dataset from the getDataSet() function.
<br>2.2.2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;testData - a factor that stores the test dataset from the getDataSet() function.
<br>2.2.3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;mergedData - a factor that provides interim storage for the merged train & test dataset.
<br>2.2.4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;meltData - a factor that provides interim storage for the melt() function.
<br>2.2.5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;tidyData - a factor that provides interim storage for the dcast() function. This dataset is subqsequently written to file.


